This course will equip students with the foundational knowledge of computational data science. Students will learn about the Data Science Process by completing projects that introduce problem identification, data gathering, exploratory data analysis, supervised and unsupervised learning techniques, model evaluation, and visualizing and interpreting results to inform the decision-making process. It is our goal that students will develop the skills needed to become a practitioner or carry out research projects in the domain of computational data science. Specifically, students are exposed to real-world data and scenarios in order to learn how to:
1. Define analytic requirements and develop appropriate questions to guide the solution design process. 
2. Design a data-gathering plan that incorporates principles of data governance and sovereignty to ensure usability, integrity, security, and availability of data.
3. Use univariate and multivariate visual and non-visual techniques to identify trends, patterns, and outliers in large datasets.
4. Build and deploy models using the appropriate analytic algorithms (such as linear and logistic regression, k-nearest neighbors, naive Bayes, k-means, and hierarchical clustering, among others) to gain understanding from data, make predictions to solve business problems, and inform decision making.
5. Assess the goodness of fit between a model and data using model evaluation metrics and cross-validation frameworks to evaluate predictive models.

Through this process, we aspire for our students to become independent and resilient problem solvers who are able to overcome challenges and learn.